Guide for 'Connecting to databases' (#24062)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/docs-beta/docs/guides/external-systems/databases.md

---
title: Connecting to databases
description: How to configure resources to connect to databases
sidebar_position: 10
---

In Dagster, *resources* are used to connect to databases by acting as a wrapper around database clients. The resource is registered along with connection details in the `Definitions` object, and can then be referenced from your asset definitions.

## What you'll learn

- How to connect to and query a local DuckDB database using the `DuckDBResource`
- How to connect to different databases in different environments, such as development and production.
- How to connect to a Snowflake database using the `SnowflakeResource`

<details>
  <summary>Prerequisites</summary>

> To follow the steps in this guide, you'll need:
> 
> - Familiarity with [Asset definitions](/concepts/assets)
> - Connection information for a Snowflake database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To follow the steps in this guide, you'll need:

- Familiarity with [Asset definitions](/concepts/assets)

If you want to run the examples in this guide, you'll need:
- Connection information for a Snowflake database
- To `pip install` the `dagster-duckdb` and `dagster-snowflake` packages
```

</details>

## Define a DuckDB resource and use it in an asset definition

Here is an example of a DuckDB resource definition that's used to create two tables in the DuckDB database.

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/resource-duckdb-example.py" language="python" title="DuckDB Resource Example" />

> 
> To run the preceding example, first [install `dagster-duckdb`](https://dagster.io/integrations/dagster-duckdb) and then run:
> 
> ```shell
> $ dagster dev --python-file resource-duckdb-example.py
> ```
> 
> Materializing the assets from the Dagster UI will create the new DuckDB database at `/tmp/iris_dataset.duckdb`.

Reviewer: Electing to remove instructions on how to run for this form of guide.

Will move `dagster-duckdb` as pre-req.
```suggestion
```

## Define a resource that depends on an environment variable

Resources can be configured using environment variables to connect to environment-specific databases. For example, a resource can connect to a test database in a development environment and a live database in the production environment. You can change the resource definition in the previous example to use an `EnvVar` as shown here:

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/resource-duckdb-envvar-example.py" language="python" title="DuckDB Resource using EnvVar Example" />

When launching a run, the database path will be read from the `IRIS_DUCKDB_PATH` environment variable.

## Define a Snowflake resource and use it in an asset definition

Using the Snowflake resource is similar to using the DuckDB resource. Here is a complete example showing how to connect to a Snowflake database and create two tables:

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/resource-snowflake-example.py" language="python" title="Snowflake Resource Example" />

> To run this code you will need to first [install `dagster-snowflake`](https://docs.dagster.io/_apidocs/libraries/dagster-snowflake). You will also need to set the `SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORKD` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** before running this example, you will need to set the `SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORKD` environment variable.
```

---
title: Connecting to databases
description: How to configure resources to connect to databases
sidebar_position: 10
---

> In Dagster, *resources* are used to connect to databases. A resource definition associates a resource name with database connection information. The resource name is then used in an asset definition to get a connection to the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Dagster, *resources* are used to connect to databases by acting as a wrapper around database clients. The resource is registered along with connection details in the `Definitions` object, and can then be referenced from your asset definitions.
```

## What you'll learn

> - How to connect to a local DuckDB database using a resource and query it in an asset definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How to connect to and query a local DuckDB database using the `DuckDBResource`
```

- How to connect to different databases in different environments, such as development and production.

> - How to connect to a Snowflake database using a resource definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How to connect to a Snowflake database using the `SnowflakeResource`
```

<details>
  <summary>Prerequisites</summary>

To follow the steps in this guide, you'll need:

- Familiarity with [Asset definitions](/concepts/assets)

> - Credentials to a live database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Connection information for a Snowflake database
```

</details>

## Define a DuckDB resource and use it in an asset definition

Here is an example of a DuckDB resource definition that's used to create two tables in the DuckDB database.

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/resource-duckdb-example.py" language="python" title="DuckDB Resource Example" />

To run the preceding example, first [install `dagster-duckdb`](https://dagster.io/integrations/dagster-duckdb) and then run:

```shell
$ dagster dev --python-file resource-duckdb-example.py
```

Materializing the assets from the Dagster UI will create the new DuckDB database at `/tmp/iris_dataset.duckdb`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Define a resource that depends on an environment variable

> A resource that reads some connection details from environment variables can connect to different databases in different environments. For example, a resource can connect to a test database in a development environment and a live database in the production environment. You can change the resource definition in the previous example to use an `EnvVar` as shown here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resources can be configured using environment variables to connect to environment-specific databases. For example, a resource can connect to a test database in a development environment and a live database in the production environment. You can change the resource definition in the previous example to use an `EnvVar` as shown here:
```

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/resource-duckdb-envvar-example.py" language="python" title="DuckDB Resource using EnvVar Example" />

When launching a run, the database path will be read from the `IRIS_DUCKDB_PATH` environment variable.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Define a Snowflake resource and use it in an asset definition

> Using a Snowflake resource is similar to using a DuckDB resource shown in the preceding example. Here is a complete example showing how to connect to a Snowflake database and create two tables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the Snowflake resource is similar to using the DuckDB resource. Here is a complete example showing how to connect to a Snowflake database and create two tables:
```
